Levant - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Levant
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation, search
"Levantine" redirects here. For Catholics in the Ottoman Empire, see Levantines. For other uses, see Levant (disambiguation) and Names of the Levant.
The Levant
The Levant (pronounced /ləˈvænt/) (Arabic: ‎, Bilad ash-Shām, also known as المشرق (Mashriq)) describes, traditionally, the Eastern Mediterranean at large, but can be used as a geographical term that denotes a large area in Western Asia formed by the lands bordering the eastern shores of the Mediterranean, roughly bounded on the north by the Taurus Mountains, on the south by the Arabian Desert, and on the west by the Mediterranean Sea, while on the east it extends towards the Zagros Mountains. The Levant includes the countries of Lebanon, Israel and the Palestinian territories, Syria, Jordan, and occasionally Cyprus, Sinai, and part of Iraq. The UCL Institute of Archeology describes the Levant as the "crossroads of western Asia, the eastern Mediterranean and northeast Africa".
Levant was originally applied to the "Mediterranean lands east of Italy", from the Middle French word levant meaning "the Orient". Historically, the "trade on the Levant" between Western Europe and the Ottoman Empire was of great economic importance. An imprecise term, Levant refers to an area of cultural habitation rather than to a specific geographic region, and its meaning shifts according to historical and cultural reference and preference.
Contents
1 Etymology
1.1 "Capitulations"
1.2 Since World War I
2 See also
3 References
4 External links
 Etymology
The term Levant, which first appeared in English in 1497, originally meant a wider sense of "Mediterranean lands east of Venetia", as in French soleil levant "rising Sun". It thus referred to the Eastern direction of the rising Sun from the perspective of those who first used it and has analogues in other languages, notably Morgenland – or a closely related word meaning morning land – in most Germanic languages.
This is similar to the Ancient Greek name Ανατολία (Anatolía), which means the "land of the rising Sun", or simply the East. It derives from ἀνατολή "the rise", especially "the sunrise", resp. from ἀνατέλλω = to rise, esp. said of the Sun or Moon (ἀνά = up, above + τέλλω = to go, rise, come into existence). For the Greeks, Ανατολία (Anatolía) is a synonym of Μικρά Ασία (Mikrá Asía = Asia Minor), not of Levant, which is Λεβάντες (Levándes) in Modern Greek. Likewise, the Arabic term Mashriq, derived from the Arabic consonantal root sh-r-q (ش ر ق), relating to "the east" or "the sunrise", refers to "the land where the Sun rises", and designates a broad area encompassing the Levant. However, the most equivalent historically used Arabic term for the Levant is the "Sham" (الشام), now mostly used by Arabs in reference to Greater Syria; the same name "Sham" is also one of the Arabic names for Damascus.
 "Capitulations"
The term became current in English in the 16th century, along with the first English merchant adventurers in the region: English ships appeared in the Mediterranean in the 1570s and the English merchant company signed its agreement ("capitulations") with the Grand Turk in 1579 (Braudel).
In 19th-century travel writing, the term incorporated eastern regions under then current or recent governance of the Ottoman empire, such as Greece. In 19th-century archaeology, it referred to overlapping cultures in this region during and after prehistoric times, intending to reference the place instead of any one culture.
 Since World War I
The Eastern Mediterranean
When the United Kingdom took over Palestine in the aftermath of the First World War, some of the new rulers adapted the term pejoratively to refer to inhabitants of mixed Arab and European descent and to Europeans (usually French, Italian or Greek) who had assimilated and adopted local dress and customs.citation needed]
The French Mandates of Syria and Lebanon, from 1920 to 1946, were called the Levant states. The term became common in archaeology at that time, as many important early excavations were made then, such as Mari and Ugarit. Since these sites could not be classified as Mesopotamian, North Africa, or Arabian, they came to be referred to as "Levantine."
Today "Levant" is typically used by archaeologists and historians with reference to the prehistory and the ancient and medieval history of the region, as when discussing the Crusades. The term is also occasionally employed to refer to modern or contemporary events, peoples, states or parts of states in the same region, namely Israel, Lebanon, Jordan, Syria, Iraq and Cyprus (compare with Near East, Middle East, Eastern Mediterranean and Western Asia). Several researchers include the island of Cyprus in Levantine studies, including the Council for British Research in the Levant, the UCLA Near Eastern Languages and Cultures department, and the UCL Institute of Archaeology, the latter of which has dated the connection between Cyprus and mainland Levant to the early Iron Age. Currently, a dialect of Levantine Arabic, Cypriot Maronite Arabic, is the most-spoken minority language in the country.
 See also
Fertile Crescent
History of the Levant
Mesopotamia
Near East
 References
^ a b The Ancient Levant, UCL Institute of Archaeology, May 2008
^ Council for British Research in the Levant homepage
^ Biblical and Levantine studies, UCLA
Braudel, Fernand, The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World in the Age of Phillip II
Julia Chatzipanagioti: Griechenland, Zypern, Balkan und Levante. Eine kommentierte Bibliographie der Reiseliteratur des 18. Jahrhunderts. 2 Vol. Eutin 2006. ISBN 3981067428
http://www.levantine.plus.com/index.htm. Levantine Heritage Site. Includes many oral and scholarly histories, and genealogies for some Levantine Turkish families.
This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations where appropriate. (April 2009)
 External links
The History of the Ancient Near East The Ancient Levant
Levantine Cultural Center in Los Angeles
v•d•e
Regions of the world
Africa
Northern (Maghreb)· Sub-Sahara (Central·
Southern· Western· Eastern (Horn))
Oceania
Australasia· Melanesia· Micronesia· Polynesia
Americas
North (Northern• Middle• Central• Caribbean)· South (Southern Cone)· Anglo· Latin
Polar
Arctic· Antarctic
Asia
Central· Eastern(Northeastern)· Northern· Southeastern· Southern· Western
Oceans
World· Arctic· Atlantic· Indian· Pacific· Southern
Europe
Central· Eastern· Northern· Southeastern· Southern· Western
See also Continents of the world
<!--
NewPP limit report
Preprocessor node count: 1168/1000000
Post-expand include size: 28763/2048000 bytes
Template argument size: 15955/2048000 bytes
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
-->
Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levant"
Categories: Levant | Fertile Crescent | Mediterranean | Near East | Western Asia | Geography of Syria | Geography of Lebanon | Geography of Palestine | Geography of Jordan | Geography of IsraelHidden categories: Articles containing Arabic language text | Articles containing Ancient Greek language text | All articles with unsourced statements | Articles with unsourced statements from August 2007 | Articles lacking in-text citations from April 2009 | All articles lacking in-text citations
Views
Article
Discussion
Edit this page
History
Personal tools
Try Beta
Log in / create account
Navigation
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Search
Interaction
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact Wikipedia
Donate to Wikipedia
Help
Toolbox
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Printable version Permanent linkCite this page
Languages
Afrikaans
العربية
བོད་ཡིག
Arpetan
Azərbaycan
Bosanski
Български
Česky
Cymraeg
Dansk
Deutsch
Eesti
Ελληνικά
Español
Esperanto
فارسی
Français
한국어
Hrvatski
Italiano
עברית
Basa Jawa
Latviešu
Lietuvių
Македонски
Nederlands
日本語
‪Norsk (bokmål)‬
‪Norsk (nynorsk)‬
Polski
Português
Română
Русский
Simple English
Slovenčina
Српски / Srpski
Srpskohrvatski / Српскохрватски
Suomi
Svenska
ไทย
Türkçe
Українська
اردو
中文
This page was last modified on 12 February 2010 at 08:16.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details.
Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.Contact us
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
